Welcome to the world of Low-Code!
Imagine you are a business professional and you're
required to keep track of key metrics for an important
business using a spreadsheet.
Overtime the number of clients contributing to this process
grows.
Continuously using spreadsheets to keep track of data
manually becomes increasingly inefficient.
The obvious solution is to create an application that
handles your data for you.
However,
doing so takes time and would require a level of
programming knowledge which you may not have.
How can you continue to keep track of important data
without slowing down your overall business process?
The solution to this problem is to use a Low Code platform
to develop a software solution that makes it easy to submit,
track
and import data quickly and efficiently.
In an always evolving and growing tech world, the tools
and technologies available for development have skyrocketed.
As a result,
development teams now need to manage complex environments,
rather than homogenous stacks that were
common 20 years ago.
Today, some businesses require faster
and more flexible solutions than
custom code scripts could offer,
and this is where low code comes in.
Low code is a minimal-coding approach
to creating applications and processes
without needing to research, write, or test new scripts.
Low code platforms are accessible to people of
all skill levels.
This means that users who have never learned how to code
can develop an entire application on their own.
Often, the result is obtained within days or weeks of
the initial idea.
Since low code does not require prior coding knowledge,
non-IT professionals can create their own applications
without needing constant communication with
a technical team.
The minimal code style for creating applications
leads to a much faster delivery of software solutions,
as well as increased flexibility in modifying them.
Microsoft Power Apps and Power Automate are easy to use.
There are many official tutorials and documentation
available to explain basic and advanced tools
provided by the Microsoft Power Platform.
Low code simplifies the development process
and frees up resources by allowing
the automation of mundane tasks.
The Rapid Prototype Design Unit currently offers licensing
for Microsoft PowerApps and Power Automate platforms,
which in turn can easily integrate with Power BI solutions.
Furthermore,
you can add intelligence to the applications you build
on the Power Platform using the AI Builder feature.
In the future, we will be providing access
to additional platforms to help with building
low code applications.
If you have any questions,
please contact the Rapid Prototype Design Unit.